We've been using AI tools for a long
time in engineering. I believe we were
the first company outside of GitHub to
use GitHub Copilot. And the reason Yeah.
The reason I know that is because when
Thomas DMK became the CEO of GitHub, the
same day I emailed him saying I would
like GitHub Copilot. This is 2021, a
year before Chat GBT. He messaged me
back saying, "It's not available for
commercial use." And I said, "That's not
what I asked. I don't care what you have
for commercial use. I would like this
deployed for all Shopify engineers as
soon as humanly possible." I think it
took him about a month. And we were not
charged for 2 years because there was
not a skew to charge us. And we said in
exchange we'll give you lots and lots of
feedback. And so we were using copilot
for a long time and then we worked with
them as we started looking at their road
map. We then deployed cursor internally
as well. Actually we're very new to
cursor about a year into cursor. So we
kind of trying all these things and as
we try them we want to see what's
working not working and then we let more
engineers use it. The most interesting
thing about cursor is that the growth in
cursor at Shopify is happening a lot
outside of engineering and outside of
R&D finance sales support those are the
teams using cursor. What happens when a
company goes allin on AI? Shopify did
exactly this a few years ago and
Shopify's head of engineering, Farhan
Tavar, told me exactly how it's going so
far. In this episode, we discuss how
Shopify works closely with AI labs and
why Farhand paired for an hour with an
engineer at Antrophic working on the
cloud code team. Why Shopify is planning
to hire 10,000 interns in a year and how
they incorporated AI into their entry
process. why Shopify has no cost limit
on how much an engineer or team can
spend on AI tokens and many more. If
you're interested to know what an AI
first tech company operates, like this
episode is for you. This podcast was
recorded as a live podcast at LDX3 in
London. If you enjoy the podcast, please
do subscribe on your favorite podcast
player and on YouTube. So, welcome
everyone to this very special live
podcast with Farhan Tower and we're
going to talk about AI at Shopify. But
before we start about AI, I just wanted
to talk a little bit about you, Farhan.
So I did a little bit of research. I
talked with a couple of engineers at at
at Shopify and they told me, you know,
your role is the head of engineering and
engineers told me that they see you in
everything. You have reworked Shopify's
intern hiring program. You've defined
what Shopify does. In fact, you even
were in the weeds to deploying an
internal hackfest to more than to
getting the Wi-Fi right for a hackfest.
So I'd like to know what does a head of
engineering do at Shopify and
specifically what do you do or maybe
what do you not do? Yeah. So I think
what's interesting about Shopify is that
we use this line. We're not a swim lane
company which means that we don't try to
put people into these roles where you
are like you're in product so only think
about product or you're in engineering
only think about like how the code is
written or architecture. We're very much
just curious problem solvers and so
something's broken we expect uh curious
people to go and look at the problem
even doesn't matter what their role is
and try to solve it and so last year at
our uh Shopify summit which is our
employee event where you know 7,000
people come to one space the Wi-Fi did
not work super well and so I spent all
my time in that summit for three days
trying to fix the Wi-Fi I became known
as the chief Wi-Fi officer and so this
year which was it was two weeks ago um I
deployed uh 300 00 ubiquity uh APS, 800
switches in order to have access points.
Yeah. To have a much much smoother Wi-Fi
experience, which is how uh that all got
started in terms of and they the team
built lots and lots of memes because
they thought the Wi-Fi was not going to
work, but it did work. And so I did
publish all those memes. Uh I I I need
to ask you because a lot of leaders
would say, look, like you know, your
time is super valuable. You're kind of
ahead of an organization. How many
people are 3,000? 3,000 people. you're
kind of up there and your time is now,
you know, if you measure it in dollars,
it'll be expensive, right? It's a lot
better to just get a specialist to do
these things. Why do you still do these
things? And do you disagree with with
that advice of like focus on on the high
leverage? Yeah. So, we don't love the
there's that notion of like hire smart
people and get out of their way.
Instead, what we say is like hire smart
people and pair with them on problems. M
so the difference for us is we really
like to bring in obviously lots of smart
people hands-on people and instead of
just saying hey you take this area and
then go away and just solve it for me
and come back we like to pair with them
and say you're smart I'm smart can we
work on this problem together this
episode is brought to you by work OS if
you're building a SAS app at some point
your customers will start asking for
enterprise features like SL
authentication skim provisioning and
fine grain authorization that's where
work OS comes in making it fast and
painless to add enterprise features to
your app their APIs are easy to
understand and you can ship quickly and
get back to building other features.
Work OS also provides a free user
management solution called OKIT for up
to 1 million monthly active users. It's
a drop in replacement for Ozero and
comes standard with useful features like
domain verification, rolebased access
control, bot protection and MFA. It's
powered by Radics components which means
zero compromises in design. You get
limitless customizations as well as
modular templates designed for quick
integrations. Today, hundreds of fast
growing startups are powered by work OS,
including ones you probably know like
Cursor, Versel, and Perplexity. Check it
out at work.com to learn more. That is
works.com.
If you want to build a great product,
you have to ship quickly. But how do you
know what works? More importantly, how
do you avoid shipping things that don't
work? The answer, Statig. Static is a
unified platform for flags, analytics,
experiments, and more. combining five
plus products into a single platform
with a unified set of data. Here's how
it works. First, static helps you ship a
feature with a feature flag or config.
Then, it measures how it's working from
alerts and errors to replays of people
using that feature to measurement of
topline impact. Then, you get your
analytics, user account metrics, and
dashboards to track your progress over
time, all linked to the stuff you ship.
Even better, Static is incredibly
affordable with a super generous free
tier. a starter program with $50,000 of
free credits and custom plans to help
you consolidate your existing spend on
flags, analytics, or AB testing tools.
To get started, go to
statsick.com/pragmatic.
That is statsig.com/pragmatic.
Happy building. So this leads really
nice into the next thing I heard about
you which is at Shopify you are have
gone kind of AI first and we're going to
talk a little bit about that but one
thing that you do is you have access to
some of the top AI labs and what you
told me just before that you pair with
them. You just told me that the other
day you were pairing with anthropic
engineers. Can you tell me about this
whole pairing and how you work with
these AI labs? Yeah, because again we're
like super curious problem solvers and
so when there's something interesting
happening in the industry, we want to be
close to it. So obviously chatbt comes
out and then Anthropics builds their
model, Gemini has their model, Coher has
their model, we want to be as close to
the leading edge as possible and so we
try to be close to those people and what
they're working on. And one of the
things we do is when something comes
out, so this in this example it was
cloud code. We deployed inside of
Shopify. We saw people using this was in
May, right? Three or four weeks ago.
Exactly. Well, so cloud code came out
before that like let's say 6 months ago
and then we started spending time with
anthropic. I wanted to see how Anthropic
was using cloud code internally similar
to like OpenAI is now releasing codecs.
I want to figure out how they're using
it internally. And so what I did was I
reached out to Anthropic and said, "Hey,
I'd like to pair with one of your
applied AI engineers. We spent an hour
building a bunch of things and I learned
how he sees uh cloud code being used
internally at Enthropic." Then I can
take that back and say, "Well, here's
how we're using it at Shopify and we can
together figure out where we think this
thing can go." Is this just a matter of
like you just asked them? Yeah. I mean,
because we are Shopify, we're very
lucky. People want to see how we work.
We tend to work in an unorthodox way and
they also are interested in how we use
it, but they also use it. And so, it was
more of a me again, a pairing. It was a
true pairing. It wasn't like me as a
customer trying to push them and say, "I
really want." It was we have a shared
Slack channel. I peding them there
saying, "Hey, who'd want to pair with me
for an hour on something I'm building
inside Shopify?" Somebody put their hand
up, an applied AI engineer, and said,
"We'll show you how we work and we show
you how how we work and we can together
figure out um where we think this
product could go." So, I do that with a
lot of the providers. And as you're
pairing, is it just you pairing and then
you later tell people or like do you
Yeah, I might I might record the session
and then share it with the internally to
say, "Hey, I just did a pairing session
with Anthropic." They might use it for a
case study that they're building. But
the idea is again because I'm just
curious when somebody says something I'm
like, "Oh, how do you how does that
work? How does that uh how can we use
this?" And so I think it's a way for us
to just learn. And one one recent thing
that I I just wanted to to go into
before we get into some more of the AI
things. It's a really fun fact that most
people don't know. You just came out of
a code red for seven months. Uh I think
this is the the first time we're
building. What was this code red? Uh
what was about and and what did people
outside and inside of Shopify see of it?
Yeah. So we were uh internally seeing a
lot of things that weren't bubbling to
the surface, but that can actually
affect the operation of a system. So you
would typically call it tech debt, but
we had a lot of signals showing that the
tech debt was growing, not just the
general ones like uh taking longer to
update a piece of software or build a
version two of a product or people
having a hard time uh maintaining some
of the software stack. We saw things
even not externally but internally that
were shooting out signals lots of
exceptions uh growing even in some cases
because we build things at the very low
level of the stack. So for example we
patch we're core contributors to Ruby.
We patch my SQL I believe we have the
second largest MySQL fleet in the world
outside of meta. Um and we were seeing
things like seg faults and things like
that that I was like not willing to feel
like we should move on and just build
features as normal. And so we actually
got together spent uh we didn't think it
was going to be 7 months we thought it
was going to maybe be 3 months. And we
took uh something between like 30 to 50%
of engineering. We didn't have an actual
number. We just said these things have
to not grow anymore. Like exceptions,
unique exception counts have to shrink.
There should be zero seg faults. We
should understand everything that's
happening in the system. And so we spent
almost 7 months uh doing that over the
last uh you know from November till now.
How did you make sure that you fixed the
right thing? Did you like talk to the
seam saying hey bring up the things? And
and also how did you decide when you
will stop? Because like whenever I hear
these code reds, it's always, you know,
a lot of companies do code yellows, code
reds, but sometimes they can drag on
forever. Yeah. So we had m multiple
metrics that we used. One was literally
what I said, exception counts, unique
exception counts and seg faults, which
would literally would say like seg
faults are at zero now and exceptions
should be going down. But we also looked
at other metrics that we have uh like
you know we have four we want to have
four lines of reliability across our
different surfaces storefronts merchant
admin uh point of sale like we looked at
all these things and we also used the
28day rolling average of those things
and once those were all green and we saw
that uh again seg unique exception
stopped and was shrinking we then felt
like we're in a place where we can start
building features again and now going on
to to AI so you're a huge early adopter
of of AI coding tools tools. Can you
tell me on what tools you started to use
and what you're using right now and what
what what your what you're liking, what
engineers are are liking specifically
like so focus more on software engineer
but maybe even outside of a software.
Yeah. So we we've been using AI tools
for a long time in in engineering. So we
have we were the I believe we were the
first company outside of GitHub to use
GitHub copilot. And the reason yeah the
reason I know that is because when
Thomas DMK became the CEO of GitHub the
same day I emailed him saying I would
like GitHub copilot. This is 2021, a
year before Chat GBT. Um, he messaged me
back saying, "It's not available for
commercial use." And I said, "That's not
what I asked. I don't care what you have
for commercial use. I would like this
deployed for all Shopify engineers as
soon as uh humanly possible." I think it
took him about a month and we were not
charged, I think, for 2 years because
there was not a skew to charge us. And
we said, "In exchange, we'll give you
lots and lots of feedback." And so we
were using Copilot for a long time. And
then we worked with them as we started
looking at their road map. We then
deployed cursor internally as well.
Actually, we're very new to cursor about
a year. Really? Um, yeah, they were a
tiny startup back then. Yeah. So, yeah,
I I think that's super late. You're
saying it's super early. I feel like
it's very late to cursor. We knew about
cursor for a long time. We like to have
one tool at Shopify for the things that
we're doing. And so, we don't like to
have multiple tools. So, like we have
like Figma. We don't try to have lots of
other uh visualization tools. We have
MySQL. We don't have other databases.
So, we try to focus on one tool. And so,
our our bet was VS Code. But because of
AI's proliferation and we don't know
what's going to happen, we then started
making a change in our stance around
trying more tools than just one. Maybe
we consolidate, maybe we don't. But
right now we have cursor and VS code as
our two AI tools. And then cloud code
came as the agentic workflow and we
started using cloud code. We tried Devon
last year. So we kind of trying all
these things and as we try them we want
to see what's working, what's not
working and then we let more engineers
use it. The most interesting thing about
cursor is that the growth in cursor at
Shopify is happening a lot outside of
engineering and outside of R&D finance
sales support. Those are the teams using
cursor. What do they use it for? So
what's happening is they're because
cursor is actually so ubiquitous on uh
building things. They're using it to
build MCP servers outside of regular uh
engineering domain. So for example,
Salesforce,
Google Calendar, Gmail, Slack, they're
using they're building MCP uh access MCP
servers to access those services and
then building like homepages for
themselves. Like you're a salesperson,
connect to Salesforce, connect to Google
Calendar, connect to my email, and tell
me what what opportunity I should be
working on. So with just going back with
with an MCP server, when you have a
service, you can put an MCP server and
then you can access it with for example
with cursor or with with an agent.
Exactly. Do engineers help build that
MCP server? Sometimes yes, but a lot of
times no. Now that these services are
coming out with their own MCP agent so
that you can literally just download
GitHub's MCP server, right? You don't
have to actually build it yourself. But
a lot of times they're actually just
building it themselves and they're
watching like videos and they're
actually just deploying it on their own
without any engineer intervention at
all. Now it's it's it's end of one,
right? They're building software for
each individual person, not like
infrastructure for all people. And does
this remind you of anything? You've been
around in the tech industry for a long
time, but the fact that you know the
non-technical people are now kind of
building that does does it do you see
any parallels from from the past of did
did this happen before or is this is
this new? this coding part is new
although if you remember like like
wissywig editors and like people
starting to like selfs serve I think it
it it reeks of that but they are I mean
they're not reading the code right
they're really much vibe coding and if
it doesn't work they just delete and
start over but even if you read
anthropics documentation on cloud code
like they say onethird of the time you
can kind of get something working with
one shot and so we're starting to see
that and people are getting used to the
fact that if it doesn't work they just
delete and start over and and try to get
it working I I find this really
interesting on on how this is happening.
Does is it change your dynamics with
engineering? Because one thing I noticed
when you know working at places like
Uber the everyone was a bit jealous of
engineering like they wanted engineering
resources. They couldn't get it. They
really want one of these things. Do you
see any of this change? I'm going to say
yes and no. So there's a weird thing
happening whereby so let's say you're a
PM. Unless you're a technical PM. You
now probably have enough knowledge to
vibe code some new feature you've been
waiting for engineering to build for you
yourself. The question is, can you
submit a PR and should the PR be
accepted by engineering?
I'm going to ask you first and then you
and I'll tell you what I think. Well, I
think you can always submit a PR and
engineering will tell you why it can
either be accepted with if if it's good
or what is missing. Uh may that be
conceptual, may it be coding standards
and all those things, but at least you
know they're they're they're and this
feedback for them. They're seeing what
this person wants to do. I think it
should be a great thing. Yes. I'll say
yes with one caveat. And the caveat is
the problem with vibe coding today is
you might generate 10,000 lines of code
for a very simple uh application feature
that now the burden on engineering to
read the 10,000 lines is there. Yeah. So
what we say is yes you can submit a PR
but you have to understand the code you
are writing yourself before exactly
before you submit it because I could do
the same thing and I can say hey I'm
going to write a blog post generate 20
pages and then send it to you and be
like hey edit this and post it on your
blog and now you have the burden of
having to now if I said I read it all
and it is my voice and I agree with it
then you might be more likely to read
it. The interesting thing that we're
probably going to see this problem with
open source projects because it's so
easy to to use AI tools and they're
going to get a lot of these things. So I
think policies like this are
interesting. Exactly. Now I wanted to
get your take on one thing which is
going around in and social media.
There's a lot of people predicting it's
the end of SAS because people can create
their own SAS. Now what you told me is
some of your non-technical people are
creating like small solutions for
themselves for themselves. How do you
see this potentially changing uh SAS
vendors or not? or are are you you know
and and you're also someone who actually
you know buys a lot of SAS vendors you
understand them. Do you think this
changes anything or not really? Is it
just more personal software? Yeah, I'd
like to think we buy less SAS than most
companies only because we try to
consolidate down. That being said, there
is this notion we're in this middle zone
right now. The middle zone is basically
this idea that you can vibe code
something maybe for yourself. Um it's
unclear whether you can vibe code as a
platform or vibe code something that
gets into the infrastructure layer of
what you're building because you do
really have to understand again like you
mentioned it earlier like you might be
putting yourself in a very precarious
situation. If you're building on top of
something and building on top of
something you don't understand what
you're building right maybe it's a
prototype that's fine or a proof of
concept but if you're building
infrastructure for the internet you
likely want to understand how that's
being built. So that is not we're not
there yet. Is it coming? Yes, it's for
sure coming where someone can vibe code
something and the you know anthropic or
open AI or Gemini or who know who cares
who model build something that's
actually architecturally elegant and the
right architecture for what you need.
That's we're not there today. So where
we are is um this notion of still human
in the loop and still like start over
and like this is not what I meant and
like prompt engineering English as the
programming language. Um and so I do
think you can get yourself uh very far
but we're not I'm not worried yet about
SAS. I think we I don't think we should
be worried by the way because let's take
another view. How much software do we
think should h be should there be in the
world? Probably 10,000 times as much as
there is now 100,000 like there's a lot
of software that should be in the world
and we are we are satisfying 000 or 1%
of the demand. So now that everybody can
generate software um we should welcome
them right into the software world. We
believe everyone should be writing
software just like my sales team is and
everybody becomes more productive. I'm
not yet worried about the software
industry. I still believe this is
Jevan's paradox. The more we get, the
more we want. Yeah. A really good
analogy that has stuck with me was Simon
Willis was saying, "How has the filming
industry changed with this? Everyone has
this used to cost like5 or $10,000 a few
years ago, the this camera, everyone has
one in their pockets have." And you
know, there's still a professional
movies industry, but now there's a bunch
of, you know, there's YouTube, there
there's Tik Tok, there's all these
things. So it it has become bigger but
the barrier for the the pros has not
really changed. You know Dune and some
of these amazing movies are so hard to
make. Right. Jevan's paradox. The more
you have the more you want. We all want
to be filmmakers now. We can be
filmmakers and then there's still going
to be people at the high end and the low
end. The I would say the controversial
maybe controversial spicy take is that
these phones actually benefited the
experts more meaning the camera like bas
you know like the being able to pull out
your iPhone and take a take a video
actually benefited those who were really
really good at it already and the same
thing is maybe potentially true of vibe
coding. It's like the AI agents are
going to help the best engineers more
than the mediocre engineer. Mhm. So
there was a memo that went around in the
media about a month ago. Toby sent uh a
memo. It was meant for internal
consumption. It was about reflexive AI
usage and it got I guess it got leaked
and then Toby posted the whole thing.
And this is about saying that hey
everyone is expected to use uh AI uh at
at Shopify. Can you tell me what why
that why you felt that memo was sent
out? What was the response internally
and has it changed anything or was it
just kind of stating what what was there
already? Yeah, it was a fundamental
statement that this is something new and
it was meant to get everyone to move
from passive to active, right? So yes,
there's AI in the world and chat GBT and
all these things existed, but we started
building infrastructure internally to
make it easier to use and we ex we
basically said the following. You don't
have to use AI in your in your workflow,
but we're going to expect that you have
this plethora of tools available to you
such that the expectation is you're
going to be like your impact is going to
be evaluated as if you had the tool. So
for for example, you know, imagine not
having like Excel or Google Sheets and
you had to like, you know, like do a
complicated analysis. You don't have to
use those tools. You could use a pen and
paper, but we're going to expect that
you have these tools available and we
expect the level of analysis to be
treated as if you had these tools. And
so by us doing it, what changed
internally was actually probably more of
a change outside of R&D. Like I
mentioned, R&D was already leaning in.
Now, of course, there were some folks
who were waiting for I don't know. R&D
is engineering. R&D is engineering,
product, data, and uh design. They were
more likely to use these tools because
they tend to be more forward-looking and
uh and uh wanting to use the latest and
greatest. However, some people were
waiting um that it changed their shape
because we said, "Hey, look, we're going
to expect that you use these." But
outside of R&D, we saw it even more.
Again, sales, finance, like customer
success, help centers, like all those
roles started using AI as well. And we
again gave them the infrastructure to
use that. So, we have like an LLM proxy.
It has all of the uh APIs and all the
models available. You don't have to be
worried that your personal information
is being leaked to a model. You can kind
of use those tools. Let's talk about
these things. Let's talk about the tools
that you either created or adopted
early. I I I heard can you talk a bit
more about this LLM proxy and also I
heard something about MCP. Yeah. So we
are um when I talked to people so let me
start with LLM proxy. The problem at the
beginning was people would go to chat
GBT or Gemini or claude and they would
like you don't want to put customer data
there. You want to put customer data
there or even employee data. You want to
use it to write your employee reviews.
You don't want to put like, you know,
Simon, you know, is is having problems
with this and like put their first name
and last name and here's a project they
worked on and the code names leak. So,
we wanted to quickly have an internal
LLM proxy. Plus, we built on top of
Libra chat, which is the open source uh
native chat product and we're core
contributors to that as well. And with
the LLM proxy, you're sure to be using
the enterprise APIs. We can check to see
which we you get a token. You ask for a
token. We can see which teams are using
um how much uh like what what cost is
being incurred by that team or by
person. We have a leaderboard where we
um actively celebrate the people who use
the most tokens. Oh, really? Because
Yeah. Because we want to make sure that
they are if they're doing great work. Of
course, if not if they script like
that's not what I mean. I mean they're
doing they're doing great work with AI.
I want to see how did they spend $1,000
a month in credits from buy a cursor.
Maybe that's something they're building
something great and they have an agent
workforce underneath them. So we have we
have this proxy and again it's used to
build anything that you want to build
and you can ask for a token and use it.
And then we have uh we we very early on
MCP. We're on the MCP steering
committee. We are fans of MCPing all the
things. And so when I talk to people
about how to get access to um some piece
of data inside the inside the company,
we quickly will spin up an MCP uh
endpoint for them so that they can just
use it. So for example, our internal uh
wiki is called the vault. It has
information about all of our projects
that are happening. It has information
on every internal talk that has been
done. It takes the transcripts of all
those. So you can say something like
when did the point of sale at Shopify
launch and it'll come back and it'll say
oh in 2013 2012 there was a hackathon
where the point of sale was started and
then in the based on wiki doc based on
the wiki and then in the 2013 Q1 board
letter it was mentioned and it would
tell you all of the history of what
happened in Shopify. And so we do that
by just having all you do is put up an
MCP and now the Libra chat has access.
It's like an internal perplexity or
something like that. Exactly. And so we
basically any internal document uh is is
crawled by this thing and now you can
have access to it via MCP. And so any
new system comes online, we put an MCP
in front of it and you now and now
everybody has access to it. This episode
is brought to you by Sonar, the creators
of Sonar Cube, the industry standard for
integrated code quality and code
security that is trusted by over 7
million developers at 400,000
organizations around the world. Human
written or AI generated, Sonar Cube
reviews all code and provides actionable
code intelligence that developers can
use to improve quality and security
early in the development process.
Sonar recently introduced Sonar Cube
advanced security, enhancing Sonar's
core security capabilities with software
composition analysis and advanced static
application security testing. With
advanced security, development teams can
identify vulnerabilities in thirdparty
dependencies, ensure license compliance,
and generate software bills of
materials. It's no wonder that Sonar
Cube has been rated the best static code
analysis tool for 5 years running. So
join millions of developers from
organizations like Microsoft, Nvidia,
Mercedes-Benz, Johnson and Johnson, and
eBay and supercharge your developers to
build better, faster with Sonar. Visit
sonarsource.com/pragmatic
security to learn more. And And how many
MCP servers do you have? You have wait
two dozen. Two dozen. Yeah. And they're
growing quickly. They're growing because
people are building a new thing again.
There's one for Salesforce. There's
one's for um you know, Figma, there's
there's a there's an MCP in front of
anything. But I tell anybody who's
looking at building AI systems
internally, the way to make this easy is
start putting MCP in front of
everything. And now your data is
accessible. We have to use Libra chat.
You might use something else. But you
don't have to be even in cursor, right?
You just use the chat interface. Yeah,
you can do chat. You you you can do the
the LMS. And I like how you spun up
basically a platform to build the emp
is it is some AI platform or or is just
a platform team infra team just took it
over. Yeah. Data platform. I don't know
if I don't I'm trying to figure out
because they're inside the data platform
team. I don't know if they have a a name
outside like I call them LLM proxy but
and and what was this more like you or
someone up said like hey we need to do
this or or they just like hey this is a
good idea. that's kind of bottom up or
it was more top it was more top down
because we felt like this was going to
grow internally. We wanted to make sure
that we could we didn't want people
signing up for their own personal tokens
and it's also a good way for us to see
hey this team is growing is the usage
growing what's happening there this
person's uh usage is yeah because number
one push back I get from from people or
even engineering directors working at
companies is the data security issue and
obviously when you host it yourself it's
it's good but then you need the
infrastructure so it sounds like at what
point did did you decide what was this
month ago was this more than a year ago
to like actually invest probably I mean
I would say every week it's getting
better right I would say I would say
probably a year ago we started thinking
about it this way. We had the LLM proxy
when when chatbt came out we actively
have a warning if you go to catchb says
hey by the way like you can go to the
internal version that was a long time
for a long time yeah now you mentioned
cost and I am hearing stories of CTO's
engineering leaders saying okay we were
paying for GitHub copilot I don't know
it's $10 or $20 per month per engineer
but we have all these seats or maybe we
have for everyone and they're telling me
cursor feels a bit too expensive cuz
they're now assuring 30 or 35 and we're
not going to go there and and in gerally
uh there's a big push back on cost.
People are saying look like AI should
make engineers more productive, but it's
now like it's kind of ridiculous to
spend like $1,000 on an engineer. You
think about cost differently. Tell me
about it. Yeah, I did I did a tweettor
storm on this because I think that
people looking at it differently. So,
think about it this way. If I could give
you a tool that could make your
engineering team more productive by even
10%, would you pay for it? The answer is
yes. Would you pay $1,000 a month for it
is the question. And I my um hypothesis
here is $1,000 a month is too cheap.
Like it's too like if I can get 10
percent more, it is way too cheap. Like
it should be $5,000 a month. Like it's
insane that people are looking at this
like $100 a month, whatever. Now, I did
meet somebody who said their engineers
were spending $10,000 a month per
engineer. And I said, I want to talk to
them because I want to see either
they're doing something very very smart
or very very stupid, but I want to meet
them. And so I literally said, please
introduce me because I'm I'm I'm unclear
how you can use that much. It's like
either they've got fields of agents
building amazing things or something is
going very very wrong. But I would like
to understand because there's something
interesting happening and you should not
be penny pinching on AI tools because
actually the productivity gains are
there. We don't know what they are
because we actually don't know how to
gauge developer productivity but it is
it is it is clear that there's something
happening there and you should be uh
very open with your pocketbook there.
And so again we celebrate those who
spend more and of course we talked to
them and what did they do? So they were
getting the Do I understand that even
though you cannot measure it right now
or maybe not as accurately you believe
that there's productivity gains and you
believe that people need to use it to
get these so you're kind of treating as
an investment right now like for a year
for two years whatever that may be and
then right probably forever like I mean
again if you like you wouldn't turn off
spellch check and grammar check and and
G Suite and like you wouldn't turn off
these tools right I mean there's
probably a debate on when you turn off
sort of turn off slack because it's like
that could be a productivity but but
like there it's it's We're seeing the
gains and I don't think that uh we
should be penny pinching. Now over time
we might realize there's a equilibrium
and like oh this is the amount of tokens
they people should be using. Actually if
anybody's using cursor here the number
one thing I'll tell you is please move
away from the default model because the
default model is nowhere close to like
actually using a sophisticated model and
by default cursor puts you there. And so
we tell people please move off the the
the small models move into something
more uh bigger. We'll even say things
like please use 01 Pro for this project
or please use 03 um 03 Pro because those
they're more expensive. They're more
expensive. Actually, I'll go even
further. Miky, the CTO will say
something like the following. If you you
um don't pay personally for 01 Pro or
Gemini Ultra or Claude whatever it's
called advanced um the $200 a month one
you are crazy because you can afford it
and actually you are missing out on
actually all of the progress happening
in LM because you are just stuck to the
$10 a month or $20 a month chat GBT like
that's how far he would go. One
interesting thing that I've heard when I
talk with engineers they're saying
leadership is leading by example. Toby
is is hacking and if you go on his
Twitter or social media, you're going to
see all the all the stuff that that he's
doing even a year ago. I want to ask you
like what are you doing on on on the
side or experimenting or or playing with
it and what tools are you excited about?
Yeah. So, when I was building with when
I was pairing with that engineer with an
Entropic, I was building something for
myself, right? Yeah. I was building a
couple things. So, one great way to use
company time, I guess. Exactly. Well, I
was like, let me see what they can build
because I didn't we didn't want to go
super deep into the Shopify API. But we
do build a lot of things that um you
know, one was actually a commerce flow.
I was trying to build a commerce flow
via like operator where you can actually
record the browser session and I wanted
to see how the uh session was storing
like uh credit card information or uh
secure tokens as we were getting through
a commerce flow. And I was trying to
figure out I was trying to build almost
like sub subscription product without
using our subscription product from
Shopify. And so it was an interesting
experiment where we were trying to see
how do we store those credentials
especially when you want to store like
credit card is it stored in the cloud
already is it stored by the vendor are
we storing it in the browser session
that's how I kind of stay as close to it
as possible I I use cursor pretty often
to build my own workflows um in this
case it was cloud code we actually even
use gum I don't know if you heard of gum
loop gum loop is an automation platform
that is very interesting at its own
layers oh here's one example we tried to
build um I I did something super dumb I
was like let's figure out when the next
SanDisk Extreme Pro 8 TBTE drive comes
out. Okay, we tried to build in cloud
code. Took us an hour. We did not get
there because it actually tried to do
something at the wrong layer. It was
trying to like read the JSON and it was
like try to like get the image from the
SanDisk site and figure out if the 8 TB
drive is out like it was actually quite
complicated. We built it in 2 minutes in
Gum Loop. Not because what did Gum Loop
do? So Gum Loop is basically like it was
browser based. We said go to this
website look at the like go through the
search box like using English commands
and they came back right away and said
there's no 8 terabyte drive available
and I said okay cool run it every week
and send me an email it was just they're
different tools for different jobs and
an hour with cloud again nothing wrong
with cloud code I use it all the time it
was not meant to do this kind of like
web scraping because what it is what
does it do it tries to build a web
scraper versus gum loop it already knows
how to scrape websites so it's it's
actually just a different layer of the
stack and what I would encourage people
to do is figure out where what you're
trying to
And we have a lot of automation
happening in gun now because people have
to do something. I want to scrape a
LinkedIn profile. I want to find out if
the what platform this company is using
behind the scenes. I want to scrape a
website. Like all of these things are
it's built for the right thing at the
right time. You have a lot bigger tools.
Such exactly. So you should figure out
where you want to work, right? If you're
writing code, plot code. If you're
writing if you're doing web skyscraper,
use gum loop. So far it was an AI AI.
And when this uh letter came out
externally, there's been a lot of some
speculation saying, hm, is this a sneaky
way for Shopify to freeze headcount
because it says you shouldn't hire
unless you can check if you can do it
with AI. But then you told me something
interesting. Uh I'm not sure how how big
Shopify is, but you told me that you're
applying to hire a thousand interns. Can
you put put that in context with the
size of Shopify? And can tell me why are
you hiring interns where a lot of
companies are saying let's not hire
entry level people cuz we have AI. Yeah.
What are you seeing that others are not
seeing? Yeah. So a couple things. One is
there there's this real notion of like
generations as they come up in different
uh like that generate that graduate from
different uh programs out of university
or even coming from high school. And you
really want to be close to the next
generation of of people. One they're
like you know they know things that you
don't know. And so we restarted our
intern program in in full thrust this
year. So last year we had like 25
interns a term. Uh I convinced Toby to
hire a thousand interns this term mostly
because I felt that they would Yeah, I
know. They would be more AI reflexive
than everybody else. That was our
hypothesis. So my tweet actually said, I
want you to come to work with an LLM and
a brain, not one or the other. Yeah. The
idea was that bringing these like
centurs, AI cents, they know how to work
with an LLM to solve their whatever
workflow it is, whether it's a finance
person or an engineering intern. And we
really focused on them coming in and
changing our internal culture. And so a
thousand engineers over the year meant
like 350 a term. And what we saw there
was one, they're excited, they're
hardworking. We also we also have them
as a cohort, meaning they come to the
office. We're a remote company, but we
have the interns come in because we felt
like the younger people need to have
like younger people around them to work
together versus just being remote in
their like condo or whatever. We're
changing the culture that way as well.
And we did see this. They come they have
their AI reflexive kind of we saw the
same thing in mobile. You were in mobile
as well. And so was I in my last decade
of work and I I hired lots of interns
because they grew up with mobile phones.
And so this next generation is growing
up with the internet and they're growing
up with uh phones and they're growing up
with LLMs. So we wanted them to come in
and change our culture around that that
axis. So, do you feel like people are
learning from We all We always We always
were. Interns are the secret weapon. You
always learn more from the interns. Like
people think about internships as like
community service. Oh, that's so great,
Shopify. You're helping the next
generation. We don't do it for that. We
do it to learn from the interns. That is
always the reason. So, if you don't have
an intern program, an early talent
program, I encourage you, you should be
bringing those people in because you
will learn from them more than you will
get like out of them. Like, you will you
will take a net positive benefit from
them. And of course, for those who like
tweet at me and say, "Please don't hire
interns. You have to pay them. I'm like,
we pay them. I don't know why people
think that you don't. We pay them like
very well actually. And like they we do
hire I think I've hired almost a hundred
from the in the last in the this year
from the intern pool to come into our
program. And we're very much thinking
about the only way to get into Shopify
as an entry- level uh engineer is
through the intern program. I'm fully
with you with with on the paying. I
never understood why companies are are
cheaping out on this because sometimes
interns will reject uh some of the
offers because it doesn't cover their
living cost, which is wild. Of course,
you have to pay them. actually one of
the best intern I it was another
company's loss and in Amsterdam they
offered 500 euros per month no housing
and that intern would have loved to work
there what a great experience but they
applied to Uber because they said it's
just too low like and then we gave them
a new grat salary they could afford
housing they could afford to travel and
it was that intern could have done
amazing things at that company and now
this person is still senior at at at
Uber you know been there for 5 years so
you know their loss so think about it
350 engineers uh interns to about 3,000
engineers about 10% at any one point.
Yeah. So if I join Shopify as as either
a software engineer or or an engineering
manager, can you tell me how stuff gets
done for first as an engineer? Like what
what do what what what tools do people
use? I'm assuming it's just no longer
you know VS Code do code review. There's
going to be like AI tools here and
there. Yeah. Well, first on we have a
very specific way of writing software to
the point of we built our own uh project
management system. Like we don't use
really Jira, we don't use linear, we
don't use Yeah. And the reason is is
because we believe that uh there's that
line like first you make the tool and
then the tool makes you and so we we
believe that and so we make the tool so
that it can make us versus we it's not
nothing against those amazing tools. I'm
a big fan like linear is beautiful and
like you know uh I've known Jirro for a
long time. I'm a pivotal fra guy myself
being a pivotal ex pivotal person but we
do believe that we have a specific way
of writing of building software and if
we use one of those tools we would be
adopting someone else's way. Mhm. Yeah.
And so instead we have a tool called GSD
which stands for get done. And it
is it is a tool that allows us it's a
program management tool like a pro a
product management tool which allows us
to think about what are we building
who's on the team what's the latest
weekly update. It has metrics. It
actually pulls in PR reviews so you can
see like uh it pulls in PRs and you can
see there's activity happening on this
project. Y here are the core
contributors. Here's how long it's been
going on for. This tool is how you kind
of get work done and you're forced to
like write an update every week. And now
actually we have an AI here's an
interesting one for you. We have an AI
tool which will um pull in the latest
PRs and the latest conversations from
the Slack channel and it'll write a
update for you. And then you can look at
it and say this looks good and you can
also tell it what did I not think about
and say please emphasize this and it'll
help you write the project management
update every week. So this is
interesting. I I want to push you a
little bit on this because I think
there's two schools of thoughts here.
One says your weekly update like I
appreciate that that you're doing it.
The weekly update point should be for
you to look back on on what you did.
Obviously, everyone hates doing this, by
the way. And with by AI doing it, would
you not lose that kind of reflection?
Well, this is why we pair you with the
AI. So, we don't we we we do auto we do
autopublish it if you don't do anything.
But if you autopublish it and don't do
anything, we look at the stats. um there
is a little bit of loss from you because
you are now like losing out on the
context that you were supposed to gain
as the champion of the project by
looking deeply. However, we expect
everyone just like a PR written by AI to
have read the code and read the update.
Yeah. So, you're responsible. You're
responsible. And so, we're early days in
this. We're like literally 3 weeks in on
this project and we may revert it and
say, "Hey, by the way, it turns out
everybody stopped looking at what was
happening week to week." Yeah. But we
also every six weeks at a company level
with Toby go through every project in
the company and we see if we think that
it's on track, not on track, should be
kept working on, has the right
resources, is on too long, is it aimed
in the right direction. You better know
what's in there because literally we're
going to review it at the leadership
level. Yeah. I I I think you have no I I
I like how because I feel like with with
with AI like I kind of want it to
automate the stuff that I really don't
want to do. Yes. And ironically it's
really good at automating stuff that we
like to do sometimes which is coding but
like writing an update or writing
documentation. I don't think as
engineers we loved doing that. And so as
as an engineering again we're trying to
reduce toil. If we find it reduces
actual context we will we will revert. I
I I love the experimentation and and and
and going back and forth. As an
engineering manager, what what
additional things might might people
use? Do people build their own tools to
stay on top of things? Do people go
deeper because of Yeah, as an as an
engineering manager and a director, we
try to surface again metrics so that you
can see how your team is doing. So, for
example, we have tools that allow you to
see things like um focus time of your
team, how often they're are they in
meetings, um AI adoption, are they using
like AI tools or not? Like we're trying
to surface this information. um how many
of your people are on a GSD project
versus not because maybe a project ended
and they're like freed up to work on
something else. So we try to surface
that and engineering managers too we try
to get them to be a lot of the best ones
come from IC land like they they started
as IC's so we try to get them to do if
they're hired outside I start as an IC
at jobify before they move into
management. M oh here here's a fun one
that I think we should talk about. You
mentioned something super interesting to
me when you're hiring engineering
directors and above. In the past it was
the usual interviews you know culture
fist strategy all that stuff. You added
a coding interview for every single
engineering director and above hire. Can
you tell me about this? Yeah so it's
interesting like it's maybe shocking to
folks and I know like Rodney's sitting
there. He used to work for me. I did the
pairing interview with him and so what
happens is it is shocking for VPs
especially to be like whoa there's a
coding interview. I'm like, "Yeah,
because we believe that the best leaders
here were ones who were not running away
from coding. They just felt like they
got better leverage from running a team.
They still are deeply in love with
technology and they still, in Rodney's
case, still codes on the weekend,
right?" And so we it worked out super
well. But our whole idea is that you're
not running away. You're running towards
technology and this is just a better way
for you to express it. So I pair with
the with the candidates and they also
see that even though I'm not writing
code every day, I'm still deep in the
weeds of technology. I still love
technology and I still want to talk
about technical topics and so we pair
and some people believe that that's not
the best for them and they can you know
there's lots of great companies out
there where that's not the requirement
but at Shopify we believe people should
be as close to the details as possible
and we are such a tech nerd company like
again our sales people are vibe coding
now we want our engineering leaders to
be coding as well and so that doesn't
mean coding day-to-day but you should
understand code and how code works and a
lot of it comes back the muscle memory
of coding will come back in these
pairing interviews yeah and I I guess
especially now we have these coding
tools when you You know, you can
generate something as long as you can
look through it. Like you This is the
best part about co-pilots is that a
candidate comes, the co-pilot generates
tons of code, and now I'm like, great.
Is that good code, bad code? I love Hold
on. So, you're using AI during your
interview process? Yes. Oh, you're not
running away from it. You know, one of
the interesting stories that we just
learned, Cursor has disbanded on the
interview process. They're the AI tool
company, right? So, you're embracing it.
We're embracing it. Okay. How's it
working? Tell me. I love it because what
happens now is the AI will sometimes
generate pure garbage. So, so you're
screen sharing and you say literally use
that screen sharing and they're using I
say co-pilot or whatever let them use
whatever they want. Here's what I'll
say. If they don't use a co-pilot, they
usually get creamed by someone who does.
So, they will have no choice but to use
a co-pilot. Sometimes I will shadow an
interview and you do the questions
myself. I've never seen them with a
co-pilot and send it to the interviewer
and say, "Please mark my assignment as
well uh against the candidate. I have
not lost yet." If they have not if they
don't have a co-pilot, they will lose.
But when they do have a co-pilot, I love
seeing the generated code because I want
to ask them what do you think? Is this
good code? Is this not good code? Are
there problems? And I've seen engineers,
for example. Um, when there's something
very easy to fix, they won't fix it.
They will try to prompt to fix it. And I
see, are you really an engineer? Like
you I I get the the nuance of like just
prompt and prompt and prompt, but
sometimes it's right there and they will
not prompt. They I'm like, change the
one character and they won't and they
won't change it. And I'm like, okay. So
they they they're interesting. I I don't
want you to be 100% AI coder. I want you
to be like 90 or 95. I want you to be
able to go in and look at the code and
say, "Oh yeah, there's a line that's
wrong." So I want to ask you what is a
standout senior or staff engineer today
look at Shopify and what has changed
let's say 3 years ago when we didn't
have any of these tools. I'm trying to
pro here like how you think AI or AI
tool usage might have changed of what we
expect an amazing engineer and you think
of the the person who you think is like
this fantastic person. Well, I would say
the thing that's changing is I'm seeing
some of my engineers now actually use
these AI tools to like do the
infrastructure that they've always
wanted to do but never felt like they
had the time. So like tech debt
reduction, refactoring,
u making things easier to read, like
those are the things I'm seeing the best
engineers at Shopify use AI tooling to
actually do and they just never felt
like they had the time or the resources.
Like the engineer who always felt like I
wish I had like six months to do a code
red now can use an AI refactoring tool
like a cloud code or a open AI codeex to
like unleash these agents in parallel to
then and then review all the PRs but
then unleash it and have it and feel
like they have a team themselves. So
that's what I that's where I'm seeing
and they're not afraid of of trying
things that may or may not work. They
might unleash something for 24 hours and
like a Devon like tool and it comes back
and like utter garbage they delete it
all but they said it was worth trying.
Yeah. And as a closing question uh in
and and a lot of people are are thinking
we'd love to be like Shopify like I'm
either an engineer, I'm either a staff
engineer, director of engineering, etc.
I' I'd love to transform my culture to
be a bit more AI first. What would your
advice be? How can people start? Like
not everyone has a luxury of having the
CEO saying okay I I love these things.
Do you have tips to that you give to
your peers? I know you're in CTO groups
for example. Yeah. So I think that the
number one thing is role modeling is the
best example. like I haven't seen
anything work better than role modeling
and the way that happens is like you
have to do it. So if you are coding and
you are showing people your workflow and
you are showing you are in those same
channels asking like hey I was trying to
get this working and it wasn't working
or I I was able to get this workflow
going via this prompt. We have a prompt
library internally where you can
literally grab prompt and yeah and like
say like you know um hey this prompt
worked for somebody let me try it and
modify it for my use case. That's the
number one way in which I see people um
trying to adopt AI is because they've
seen other people do it. And so we try
to share like AI use cases. We have
again prompt libraries. We had a
hackathon like in our as a part of
Shopify Summit a few weeks ago and we
leaned heavily into AI and it wasn't
just junior people learning AI. It was
senior people trying to embrace cloud
code and one guy said I haven't coded in
six uh six weeks. I've only used cloud
code. Then I pushed him and he said okay
I have to make changes like here and
there. I said cool. You're 95% AI but
that's the point. You're not supposed to
be 100. And uh role modeling is the
number one thing I've seen that and
sharing examples. So role modeling and
then sharing especially because no one
has it figured out. So we No one has
exactly no one no one's no one's there
yet. Well this this was wonderful. I I I
love how much you're experimenting. I I
love how you are not afraid to you know
like take some churn to learn more. And
I love how much you're sharing
internally. I I think we got a little
window of this but I I think it it's
just something I hope more more more
people more companies will do. So this
was wonderful. Thank you so much. Thanks
for having me. I found it refreshing to
see just how practical Shopify is about
LLMs. It feels to me that they
understand that you need to invest and
experiment to get results. One
surprising thing for me was
understanding how Shopify expects to
become more effective using AI tools by
hiring interns who come in with an open
mind towards AI tools and can come up
with clever use cases for it. For more
details on how Shopify operates, check
out Deep Dies in the Pragmatic Engineer
linked in the show notes below. If
you've enjoyed this podcast, please do
subscribe in your favorite podcast
platform and on YouTube. This helps more
people discover the podcast. And a
special thank you if you leave a rating.